README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<div align="center">
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/network/members">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Forks">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/stargazers">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Stars">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/issues">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Issues">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub License">
    </a>
    <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/lane14">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555" alt="LinkedIn">
    </a>
  </p>

![Ubuntu](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-ubuntu-latest.yml/badge.svg)
![macOS](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-macos-latest.yml/badge.svg)
![Windows](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-windows-latest.yml/badge.svg)


  <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite">
    <img src="research_analytics_suite/gui/assets/images/centered_banner_white_black_text_1200x467.png" alt="Research Analytics Suite Banner" style="max-width: 75%; height: auto;">
  </a>
</div>

<!-- WELCOME -->
# Research Analytics Suite

<p>Author: <a href="#contact">Lane</a></p>

The **Research Analytics Suite (RAS)** is a free, open-source platform for managing and analyzing scientific data.  
RAS removes financial and technical barriers by providing a user-friendly desktop application for researchers, educators, and professionals.

> **Note:** RAS is now available in packaged releases for **Windows** and **macOS**. You no longer need to install Python or any dependencies manually.

---

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#research-analytics-suite">Welcome</a></li>
    <li><a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a></li>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#windows-installation">Windows Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#macos-installation">macOS Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    <li><a href="#running-ras">Running RAS</a></li>
    <li><a href="#examples">Examples</a></li>
    <li><a href="#project-structure">Project Structure</a></li>
    <li><a href="#developer-setup">Developer Setup</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

---

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
# Getting Started

Download the latest release for your operating system from the  
👉 [**RAS Releases Page**](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/releases)

## Windows Installation
1. Download the `.zip` file from the releases page.  
2. Extract the folder to your preferred location.  
3. Double-click **ResearchAnalyticsSuite.exe** to launch.  

_No further installation required._

## macOS Installation
1. Download the `.dmg` file from the releases page.  
2. Open the `.dmg` and drag **ResearchAnalyticsSuite.app** into your **Applications** folder.  
3. Launch RAS from **Applications** (you may need to allow it in **System Settings → Privacy & Security**). 

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> 

---

<!-- RUNNING RAS -->
# Running RAS

Once installed, simply open the program:
- **Windows**: double-click the `.exe`
- **macOS**: launch the `.app`

Advanced users can also run RAS with custom command-line arguments:

   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -o ~/workspaces/new_project -g false
   ```
- `-g true/false` → enable or disable GUI
- `-o PATH` → open or create a workspace at PATH

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- EXAMPLES -->
# Examples
## Create or Open a Workspace
   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -o ~/Research-Analytics-Suite/workspaces/my_project
   ```
- Creates a new workspace if it doesn’t exist.
- Opens the existing one if it does.

## Launch in Command Line Only
   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -g false
   ```
- Disables the GUI and runs RAS in command-line mode.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- PROJECT STRUCTURE -->
# Project Structure
<i>Fluid and subject to change as the project evolves. Developers should see the code for the latest details.</i>
- operation_manager/ → data processing orchestration
- gui/ → graphical user interface
- data_engine/ → data ingestion, streams, and integration
- analytics/ → models, stats, and visualization
- hardware_manager/ → device interfacing and control *(in-development)*

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- DEVELOPER SETUP -->
# Developer Setup
If you want to build from source instead of using the packaged release:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.git
   cd research-analytics-suite
   conda env create -f environment_win_linux.yml   # or environment_osx.yml
   conda activate research-analytics-suite
   python ResearchAnalyticsSuite.py
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
# Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. 

Open-source contributions will be available in the near future. Star & watch the project to stay tuned for updates!

<!--
Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request
-->

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- LICENSE -->
# License

Distributed under the [BSD-3-Clause License](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE). See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- CONTACT -->
# Contact

## Lane (B.Sc.)
Neurobiological Research Technologist
<br /><i>Gire Lab, University of Washington</i>
<br />email: [justlane@uw.edu](mailto:justlane@uw.edu)
<br /><a href="https://linkedin.com/in/lane14"><img align="center" height="25" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555"></a>
<br />
<br />
## Dr. David H. Gire (Ph.D.)
Associate Professor, Principal Investigator
<br /><i>Gire Lab, University of Washington</i>
<br />email: [dhgire@uw.edu](mailto:dhgire@uw.edu)
<br /><a href="https://psych.uw.edu/people/6312"><img align="center" height="15" src="https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/230/2023/11/02134822/Wordmark_center_Purple_Hex.png"></a>
<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />Project Link: [https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/lane14

Commit message:

Fix operation save/load pipeline and add editable overview panel
- Resolve multiple issues in the operation serialization and loading workflow. Operations loaded from JSON files are now properly initialized and added to the operation manager instead of being sent to the planning editor. The export pipeline correctly serializes callable actions, IO types, and literal container strings. Save-to-workspace is now async-safe and wrapped in error handling.
- Add an inline edit mode to the OperationDetailPanel overview tab, allowing users to modify operation name, version, author, description, category, and contact fields directly in the GUI. Category IDs are displayed as human-readable labels with a dropdown selector.

Additional fixes:
  - LibraryManifest: add "Uncategorized" fallback category; auto-create operation directories instead of silently returning
  - UpdatedOperationModule: handle string and non-callable action values gracefully
  - LibraryPane: use create_task instead of asyncio.run to avoid blocking the event loop
  - OperationAttributes: fix type resolution for literal container strings ("[]", "{}", "()")
  - README: add link to Getting Started Tutorial

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<div align="center">
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/network/members">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Forks">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/stargazers">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Stars">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/issues">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub Issues">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="GitHub License">
    </a>
    <a href="https://linkedin.com/in/lane14">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555" alt="LinkedIn">
    </a>
  </p>

![Ubuntu](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-ubuntu-latest.yml/badge.svg)
![macOS](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-macos-latest.yml/badge.svg)
![Windows](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/actions/workflows/test-windows-latest.yml/badge.svg)


  <a href="https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite">
    <img src="research_analytics_suite/gui/assets/images/centered_banner_white_black_text_1200x467.png" alt="Research Analytics Suite Banner" style="max-width: 75%; height: auto;">
  </a>
</div>

<!-- WELCOME -->
# Research Analytics Suite

<p>Author: <a href="#contact">Lane</a></p>

The **Research Analytics Suite (RAS)** is a free, open-source platform for managing and analyzing scientific data.  
RAS removes financial and technical barriers by providing a user-friendly desktop application for researchers, educators, and professionals.

> **Note:** RAS is now available in packaged releases for **Windows** and **macOS**. You no longer need to install Python or any dependencies manually.

---

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#research-analytics-suite">Welcome</a></li>
    <li><a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a></li>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#windows-installation">Windows Installation</a></li>
        <li><a href="#macos-installation">macOS Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    <li><a href="#running-ras">Running RAS</a></li>
    <li><a href="#examples">Examples</a></li>
    <li><a href="#project-structure">Project Structure</a></li>
    <li><a href="#developer-setup">Developer Setup</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

---

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
# Getting Started

Download the latest release for your operating system from the  
👉 [**RAS Releases Page**](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/releases)

## Windows Installation
1. Download the `.zip` file from the releases page.  
2. Extract the folder to your preferred location.  
3. Double-click **ResearchAnalyticsSuite.exe** to launch.  

_No further installation required._

## macOS Installation
1. Download the `.dmg` file from the releases page.  
2. Open the `.dmg` and drag **ResearchAnalyticsSuite.app** into your **Applications** folder.  
3. Launch RAS from **Applications** (you may need to allow it in **System Settings → Privacy & Security**). 

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> 

---

<!-- RUNNING RAS -->
# Running RAS

Once installed, simply open the program:
- **Windows**: double-click the `.exe`
- **macOS**: launch the `.app`

Advanced users can also run RAS with custom command-line arguments:

   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -o ~/workspaces/new_project -g false
   ```
- `-g true/false` → enable or disable GUI
- `-o PATH` → open or create a workspace at PATH

Reference the [**Getting Started Tutorial**](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/docs/Getting_Started_Tutorial.md) for more details on using RAS.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- EXAMPLES -->
# Examples
## Create or Open a Workspace
   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -o ~/Research-Analytics-Suite/workspaces/my_project
   ```
- Creates a new workspace if it doesn’t exist.
- Opens the existing one if it does.

## Launch in Command Line Only
   ```sh
   ResearchAnalyticsSuite -g false
   ```
- Disables the GUI and runs RAS in command-line mode.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- PROJECT STRUCTURE -->
# Project Structure
<i>Fluid and subject to change as the project evolves. Developers should see the code for the latest details.</i>
- operation_manager/ → data processing orchestration
- gui/ → graphical user interface
- data_engine/ → data ingestion, streams, and integration
- analytics/ → models, stats, and visualization
- hardware_manager/ → device interfacing and control *(in-development)*

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- DEVELOPER SETUP -->
# Developer Setup
If you want to build from source instead of using the packaged release:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.git
   cd research-analytics-suite
   conda env create -f environment_win_linux.yml   # or environment_osx.yml
   conda activate research-analytics-suite
   python ResearchAnalyticsSuite.py
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
# Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. 

Open-source contributions will be available in the near future. Star & watch the project to stay tuned for updates!

<!--
Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request
-->

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- LICENSE -->
# License

Distributed under the [BSD-3-Clause License](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE). See `LICENSE` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

---

<!-- CONTACT -->
# Contact

## Lane (B.Sc.)
Neurobiological Research Technologist
<br /><i>Gire Lab, University of Washington</i>
<br />email: [justlane@uw.edu](mailto:justlane@uw.edu)
<br /><a href="https://linkedin.com/in/lane14"><img align="center" height="25" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555"></a>
<br />
<br />
## Dr. David H. Gire (Ph.D.)
Associate Professor, Principal Investigator
<br /><i>Gire Lab, University of Washington</i>
<br />email: [dhgire@uw.edu](mailto:dhgire@uw.edu)
<br /><a href="https://psych.uw.edu/people/6312"><img align="center" height="15" src="https://uw-s3-cdn.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/230/2023/11/02134822/Wordmark_center_Purple_Hex.png"></a>
<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />Project Link: [https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite](https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/lane-neuro/research-analytics-suite/blob/main/LICENSE
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/lane14
